[Source page 1]
Package leaflet: Information for the user
Maximum Strength Ibuprofen 400mg 
Coated Tablets
ibuprofen
(Referred to as Ibuprofen tablets in the 
remainder of the leaflet)
Read all of this leaflet carefully before 
you start taking this medicine because it 
contains important information for you.
Always take this medicine exactly as 
described in this leaflet or as your doctor, 
pharmacist or nurse has told you.
– Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it 
again.
– Ask your pharmacist if you need more 
information or advice.
– If you get any side effects, talk to your 
doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This 
includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
– You must talk to a doctor if you do not 
feel better or if you feel worse after 
3 days (for children 12 years and over) or 
10 days (for adults).
What is in this leaflet
1. What Ibuprofen tablets are and what 
they are used for
2. What you need to know before you take 
Ibuprofen tablets
3. How to take Ibuprofen tablets
4. Possible side effects
5. How to store Ibuprofen tablets
6. Contents of the pack and other 
information
1. What Ibuprofen tablets are and 
what they are used for
The name of your medicine is Ibuprofen 
tablets. The active ingredient in your 
medicine is ibuprofen. Ibuprofen belongs 
to a group of medicines called NonSteroidal 
Antiinflammatory 
Drugs 
(NSAIDs). 
Ibuprofen 
works by 
reducing 
inflammation 
and 
relieving 
pain 
including period pain, nerve related pain 
(neuralgia), dental pain, headaches and 
migraine, backache, swelling and stiffness 
in the joints and muscles (rheumatic and 
muscular pain), arthritis, fever and cold and 
flu symptoms.
2. What you need to know before you 
take Ibuprofen tablets
Do not take Ibuprofen tablets if you:
• are allergic (hypersensitive), or have had 
an allergic reaction to, ibuprofen, any 
other NSAID, aspirin, or to any of the 
other ingredients in this medicine (listed 
in section 6). Symptoms of an allergic 
reaction may include swollen eyelids, lips, 
tongue, or throat
• have ever had a worsening of symptoms 
of asthma (breathing difficulty), hayfever 
(runny, itchy and inflamed nose with 
sneezing), urticaria (an itchy rash), or 
angioedema (swelling under the skin) 
when taking ibuprofen, aspirin or similar 
painkillers
• currently have or have had a stomach 
ulcer or bleeding in the stomach on two 
previous occasions
• have ever had perforation or bleeding of 
the gut when taking any NSAID
• suffer from severe liver, kidney or heart 
problems
• are in the last 3 months of pregnancy
• If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, 
think you may be pregnant or are 
planning to have a baby, ask your doctor 
or pharmacist for advice before taking 
this medicine
Do not use Ibuprofen tablets if you are in 
the last 3 months of pregnancy. You should 
not use Ibuprofen tablets during the first 
6 months of pregnancy unless clearly 
necessary and advised by your doctor. If 
you need treatment during this period, the 
lowest dose for the shortest time possible 
should be used.
Oral forms (e.g. tablets) of Ibuprofen 
tablets can cause adverse effects in your 
unborn baby. It is not known if the same 
risk applies to Ibuprofen tablets when it is 
used on the skin.
• have abnormal bleeding or problems 
with abnormal bruising
• are currently taking mifamurtide (a 
medicine used to treat bone cancer).
Warnings and precautions 
Take special care with Ibuprofen tablets 
if you:
• are taking Ibuprofen tablets for longer 
than the recommended time or at higher 
than recommended doses you are at risk 
of serious harms. These include serious 
harms to the stomach/gut and kidneys, as 
well as very low levels of potassium in 
your blood. These can be fatal (see 
section 4)
• are elderly, as you may be more prone to 
side effects (see section 4. Possible Side 
Effects) which in some cases may be 
extremely serious or even life threatening
• have a history of asthma or other allergy 
disorders
• have liver, kidney, or bowel problems
• have Systemic Lupus Erythematosus 
(SLE), a condition of the immune system 
resulting in joint pains, skin rashes, 
kidney or liver problems 
• have or have had high blood pressure or 
heart problems. Speak to your doctor 
who will advise you on your treatment 
and may wish to monitor you 
• have a history of bleeding in the stomach 
or gut. Speak to your doctor immediately 
if you notice any problems with your 
stomach, especially at the start of your 
treatment
• smoke
• have an infection, as symptoms such as 
fever, pain and swelling may be masked
• are a child with chickenpox
• are in the first 6 months of your 
pregnancy
• are taking other NSAID painkillers 
including a specific type called COX-2 
inhibitors, or aspirin, with a daily dose 
above 75mg
• if you are on low-dose aspirin (up to 
75mg).
Signs of an allergic reaction to this 
medicine, including breathing problems, 
swelling of the face and neck region 
(angioedema), chest pain have been 
reported with ibuprofen. Stop immediately 
Ibuprofen tablets and contact immediately 
your doctor or medical emergencies if you 
notice any of these signs
Skin reactions
Serious skin reactions have been reported 
including exfoliative dermatitis, erythema 
multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, 
toxic epidermal necrolysis, drug reaction 
with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms 
(DRESS), acute generalized exanthematous 
pustulosis (AGEP) in association with 
Ibuprofen tablets treatment. You should 
stop taking Ibuprofen tablets and seek 
medical attention immediately, if you 
develop any skin rash, lesions of the 
mucous membranes, blisters or other signs 
of allergy since this can be the first signs of 
a very serious skin reaction. See section 4.
There is a risk of renal impairment in 
dehydrated adolescents.
Speak to your doctor or pharmacist before 
you take this medicine.
Anti-inflammatory/pain-killer medicines 
like ibuprofen may be associated with a 
small increased risk of heart attack or 
stroke, particularly when used at high 
doses. Do not exceed the recommended 
dose or duration of treatment 
You should discuss your treatment with 
your doctor or pharmacist before taking 
ibuprofen if you:
- have heart problems including heart 
failure, angina (chest pain), or if you have 
had a heart attack, bypass surgery, 
peripheral artery disease (poor circulation 
in the legs or feet due to narrow or 
blocked arteries), or any kind of stroke 
(including ‘mini-stroke’ or transient 
ischaemic attack ‘‘TIA’’)
- have high blood pressure, diabetes, high 
cholesterol, have a family history of heart 
disease or stroke, or if you are a smoker
- have an infection – please see heading 
“Infections” below. 
Infections
Ibuprofen may hide signs of infections 
such as fever and pain. It is therefore 
possible that Ibuprofen may delay 
appropriate treatment of infection, which 
may lead to an increased risk of 
complications. This has been observed in 
pneumonia caused by bacteria and 
bacterial skin infections related to 
chickenpox. If you take this medicine while 
you have an infection and your symptoms 
of the infection persist or worsen, consult a 
doctor without delay.
Other medicines and Ibuprofen tablets
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have 
recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, including medicines obtained 
without a prescription. Ibuprofen may 
affect or be affected by some other 
medicines. For example:
• other pain killers including aspirin or 
other NSAIDs
• medicines used to treat bacterial 
infections
• medicines that are anti-coagulants (i.e. 
thin blood/prevent clotting e.g. 
aspirin/acetylsalicylic acid, warfarin, 
ticlopidine)
• medicines used to treat depression, such 
as selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors 
(SSRIs) and lithium
• medicines used to treat diabetes
• medicines used to treat epilepsy
• medicines that reduce high blood 
pressure (ACE-inhibitors such as captopril, 
beta-blockers such as atenolol medicines, 
angiotensin-II receptor antagonists such 
as losartan)
• medicines used to treat viral infections, 
such as zidovudine and ritonavir
• medicines used to treat heart failure
• medicines used to treat various illnesses 
that involve inflammation in the body 
(corticosteroids)
• medicines used to treat cancer, such as 
methotrexate and mifamurtide
• medicines used during abortion, such as 
mifepristone
• medicines used to relax muscles
• pentoxyfylline, used to treat blood 
circulation problems
• diuretics, medicines used to help you 
pass water (urine)
• medicines used to suppress the immune 
system in patients who have had a 
transplant, such as ciclosporin and 
tacrolimus
• penicillamine, used to treat a number of 
conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis, 
Wilson's disease
• cardiac glycosides, such as digoxin, used 
to treat heart conditions
• lithium
• antibiotics called quinolones such as 
ciprofloxacin
• aminoglycosides (a type of antibiotic)
• cholestyramine (a drug used to lower 
cholesterol)
• medicines known as sulphonylureas such 
as glibenclamide (used to treat diabetes)
• voriconazole or fluconazole (type of 
anti-fungal drugs)
• gingko biloba herbal medicine (there is a 
chance you may bleed more easily if you 
are taking this with ibuprofen).
Some other medicines may also affect or 
be affected by the treatment of Ibuprofen. 
You should therefore always seek the 
advice of your doctor or pharmacist before 
you use ibuprofen with other medicines.
Ibuprofen tablets with alcohol
Do not drink alcohol whilst taking this 
medicine.
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility
Do not take Ibuprofen tablets if you are in 
the last 3 months of pregnancy as it could 
harm your unborn child or cause problems 
at delivery. It can cause kidney and heart 
problems in your unborn baby. It may 
affect your and your baby’s tendency to 
bleed and cause labour to be later or 
longer than expected. You should not take 
Ibuprofen tablets during the first 6 months 
of pregnancy unless absolutely necessary 
and advised by your doctor. If you need 
treatment during this period or while you 
are trying to get pregnant, the lowest dose 
for the shortest time possible should be 
used. If taken for more than a few days 
from 20 weeks of pregnancy onward, 
Ibuprofen tablets can cause kidney 
problems in your unborn baby that may 
lead to low levels of amniotic fluid that 
surrounds the baby (oligohydramnios) or 
narrowing of a blood vessel (ductus 
arteriosus) in the heart of the baby. If you 
need treatment for longer than a few days, 
your doctor may recommend additional 
monitoring.
Ibuprofen tablets belong to a group of 
medicines which may impair fertility in 
women. This effect is reversible on 
stopping the medicine. It is unlikely that 
Ibuprofen tablets, used occasionally, will 
affect your chances of becoming pregnant, 
however, tell your doctor before taking this 
medicine if you are having problems when 
trying to become pregnant.
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice 
before taking any medicine.
It is possible that this medicine can pass 
into breast milk. If you are breastfeeding, 
speak to your doctor or pharmacist for 
advice before taking this, or any medicine.
Driving and using machines 
This medicine may make you feel dizzy, 
drowsy or tired. You may also experience 
blurry vision. Do not drive or use tools or 
machines if you are affected in any way 
after taking this medicine.
Ibuprofen tablets contain sucrose and 
sodium
If you have been told by your doctor that 
you have intolerance to some sugars, 
contact your doctor before taking this 
medicinal product.
This medicine contains less than 1mmol 
sodium (23mg) per tablet, that is to say 
essentially 'sodium-free'.
3. How to take Ibuprofen tablets
Always take this medicine exactly as 
described in this leaflet or as your doctor, 
pharmacist or nurse has told you. Check 
with your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if 
you are not sure.

[Source page 2]
Adults, Elderly and Children over 12 years
This product is intended for short term use 
only. The lowest effective dose should be 
used for the shortest duration necessary to 
relieve symptoms. You should not take 
Ibuprofen tablets for longer than 10 days 
unless your doctor tells you to. If you have 
an infection, consult a doctor without 
delay if symptoms (such as fever and pain) 
persist or worsen (see section 2).
The usual dose is 400mg (1 tablet) to be 
taken with a drink of water, preferably with 
or after food, up to three times a day as 
required. The dose should not be repeated 
more frequently than every 4 hours. Do 
not take more than 1200mg (3 tablets) in 
24 hours.
Taking this medicine with or after food or 
milk may only partially reduce stomach 
side effects such as indigestion (see 
section 4).
If in adolescents this medicinal product is 
required for more than 3 days, or if 
symptoms worsen a doctor should be 
consulted.
If you take more Ibuprofen tablets than 
you should
If you accidentally take too many 
Ibuprofen tablets than you should, or if 
children have taken this medicine by 
accident, you should contact your doctor 
or go to your nearest hospital casualty 
department immediately to get an opinion 
of the risk and advice on action to be 
taken. Take this leaflet and any unused 
tablets with you to show the doctor.
The symptoms of an overdose include 
vomiting (being sick – may be blood 
streaked), headache, confusion, shaky eye 
movement, nausea (feeling sick), stomach 
pain and possibly diarrhoea. Dizziness, 
ringing in the ears (tinnitus) and fainting 
can also be signs of an overdose. At high 
doses, drowsiness, chest pain, palpitations, 
loss of consciousness, convulsions (mainly 
in children), weakness and blood in urine, 
cold body feeling, and breathing problems 
have been reported. 
The doctor will assess your condition and 
decide how to treat your overdose. 
If you forget to take Ibuprofen tablets
If you forget to take your medicine take it 
as soon as you remember. If it is almost 
time for your next dose do not take the 
missed dose at all. Do not take a double 
dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you have any further questions on the 
use of this medicine, ask your doctor, 
pharmacist or nurse.
4. Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause 
side effects, although not everybody gets 
them. If any side effects become serious or 
if you notice any side effects that are not 
listed in this leaflet, please tell your doctor 
or pharmacist. You can minimise the risk of 
side effects by taking the least amount of 
tablets for the shortest amount of time 
necessary to control your symptoms. 
(Drug reaction with eosinophilia and 
systemic symptoms):
A severe skin reaction known as DRESS 
syndrome can occur. Symptoms of DRESS 
include: skin rash, fever, swelling of lymph 
nodes and an increase of eosinophils (a 
type of white blood cell.)
Chest pain, which can be a sign of a 
potentially serious allergic reaction called 
Kounis syndrome 
Systemic and topical formulations
Severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs)
STOP TAKING Ibuprofen tablets and seek 
immediate medical help if you experience:
• Signs of aseptic meningitis such as severe 
headache, high temperature, stiffness of 
the neck or intolerance to bright light
• Signs of intestinal bleeding such as 
• Passing blood in your faeces 
(stools/motions)
• Passing black tarry stools
• Vomiting any blood or dark particles that 
look like coffee grounds.
• reddish non-elevated, target-like or 
circular patches on the trunk, often with 
central blisters, skin peeling, ulcers of 
mouth, throat, nose, genitals and eyes. 
These serious skin rashes can be 
preceded by fever and flu-like symptoms 
[exfoliative dermatitis, erythema 
multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, 
toxic epidermal necrolysis]
• Widespread rash, high body temperature 
and enlarged lymph nodes (DRESS 
syndrome).
A red, scaly widespread rash with bumps 
under the skin and blisters accompanied 
by fever. The symptoms usually appear at 
the initiation of treatment (acute 
generalised exanthematous pustulosis). 
TELL YOUR DOCTOR AND STOP TAKING 
IBUPROFEN TABLETS IF YOU 
EXPERIENCE:
• Unexplained stomach pain (abdominal 
pain) or other abnormal stomach 
symptoms, indigestion, heartburn, 
feeling sick and/or vomiting
• Unexplained wheezing, shortness of 
breath, skin rash, itching or bruising 
(these may be symptoms of an allergic 
reaction)
• Yellowing of the eyes and/or skin 
(jaundice)
• Severe sore throat with high fever (these 
may be symptoms of a condition known 
as agranulocytosis)
• Blurred or disturbed vision (visual 
impairment) or seeing/hearing strange 
things (hallucinations)
• Fluid retention e.g. swollen ankles (this 
may be a sign of kidney problems)
• Severe spreading skin rash (Stevens – 
Johnson Syndrome and erythema 
multiforme, symptoms include severe 
skin rash, blistering of skin, including 
inside mouth, nose, and genitals, as well 
as skin peeling which may be 
accompanied with symptoms such as 
aching, headaches, and feverishness).
• Liver, kidney problems or difficulty 
urinating
Medicines such as Ibuprofen tablets have 
been associated with a small increased risk 
of heart attack (myocardial infarction) or 
stroke. 
Medicines such as Ibuprofen tablets have 
in exceptional cases been associated with 
severe skin problems for patients with 
chicken pox or shingles. 
Blood disorders, kidney problems, liver 
problems or severe skin reactions may 
occur rarely with ibuprofen. 
Very rarely Ibuprofen tablets may cause 
aseptic meningitis (inflammation of the 
protective membrane surrounding the 
brain). 
Ibuprofen has also been shown to 
sometimes worsen the symptoms of 
Crohn’s disease or colitis. 
Ibuprofen tablets, especially when taken at 
higher than recommended doses or for a 
prolonged period of time, can cause 
damage to your kidneys and affect them 
removing acids properly from your blood 
into urine (renal tubular acidosis). It can 
also cause very low levels of potassium in 
your blood (see section 2). This is a very 
serious condition and will require 
immediate treatment. Signs and symptoms 
include muscle weakness and 
light-headedness.
Other side effects
Common (affects up to 1 in 10 people):
• rash
• feeling dizzy or tired
• stomach pain, or indigestion, diarrhoea, 
feeling sick, being sick, wind, constipation
• headache – if this happens while you are 
taking this medicine it is important not to 
take any other medicines for pain to help 
with this 
• passing black tarry stools
• passing blood in your faeces 
(stools/motions)
• vomiting any blood.
Uncommon (affects up to 1 in 100 
people):
• feeing drowsy
• feeling anxious
• feeling a tingling sensation or ‘pins and 
needles’
• difficulty sleeping
• hives, itching
• skin becomes sensitive to light
• visual disturbances, hearing problems
• hepatitis, yellowing of your skin or eyes, 
reduced liver function
• reduced kidney function, inflammation of 
the kidneys, kidney failure
• sneezing, blocked, itchy or runny nose 
(rhinitis)
• stomach or gut ulcer, hole in the wall of 
the digestive tract
• inflammation of your stomach lining
• small bruises on your skin or inside your 
mouth, nose or ears
• difficulty breathing, wheezing or 
coughing, asthma or worsening of 
asthma 
• ringing in ears (tinnitus)
• sensation of feeling dizzy or spinning 
(vertigo)
• mouth ulcers
• serious allergic reaction which causes 
swelling of the face or throat.
Rare 
(affects up 
to 1 in a 
1000 
people):
• feeling 
depressed 
or 
confused
• fluid 
retention 
(oedema)
• a brain 
infection called ‘non-bacterial meningitis’
• loss of vision
• changes in blood count – the first signs 
are: high temperature, sore throat, mouth 
ulcers, flu – like symptoms, feeling very 
tired, bleeding from the nose and the skin
• reduction in blood cells (anaemia)
• serious allergic reaction which causes 
difficulty in breathing or dizziness
• severe sore throat with high fever 
(agranulocytosis).
Very rare (affects up to 1 in 10,000 
people):
• liver failure
• heart failure
• heart attack
• inflammation of the pancreas
• skin problems (which can also affect 
inside your mouth, nose or ears) such as 
‘Stevens – Johnson syndrome’, ‘toxic 
epidermal necrolysis’ or ‘erythema 
multiforme’
• high blood pressure.
Not known (frequency cannot be 
estimated from available data):
• worsening of ulcerative colitis or Crohn’s 
Disease (inflammation of the colon)
• a red, scaly widespread rash with bumps 
under the skin and blisters mainly 
localized on the skin folds, trunk, and 
upper extremities accompanied by fever 
at the initiation of treatment (acute 
generalised exanthematous pustulosis). 
Stop using Ibuprofen tablets if you 
develop these symptoms and seek 
medical attention immediately. See also 
section 2
• skin becomes sensitive to light
• Fixed drug rash, which may progress to 
generalised blistering lesions.
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your 
doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes 
any possible side effects not listed in this 
leaflet. You can also report side effects 
directly via the Yellow Card Scheme at 
www.mhra.gov.uk/yellowcard or search for 
MHRA Yellow Card in the Google Play or 
Apple App Store. 
By reporting side effects you can help 
provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine.
5. How to store Ibuprofen tablets
Keep this medicine out of the sight and 
reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry 
date which is stated on the blister or 
carton. The expiry date refers to the last 
day of that month.
Do not store above 25°C. Store in the 
original package in order to protect from 
light and moisture.
Do not throw away any medicines via 
wastewater or household waste. Ask your 
pharmacist how to throw away medicines 
you no longer use. These measures will 
help protect the environment.
6. Contents of the pack and other 
information 
What Ibuprofen tablets contain
The active substance is ibuprofen. Each 
Maximum Strength Ibuprofen 400mg 
Coated Tablet contains 400mg ibuprofen.
The other ingredients are colloidal 
anhydrous silica, starch, povidone, 
microcrystalline cellulose, alginic acid, 
magnesium stearate, sodium lauryl sulfate, 
sodium starch glycollate and 
croscarmellose sodium.
The coating contains polyvinyl acetate 
phthalate, stearic acid, purified talc, 
sucrose, calcium carbonate, acacia, 
titanium dioxide (E171) and carnauba wax. 
What Ibuprofen tablets look like and 
contents of the pack
Ibuprofen tablets are round, white, sugar 
coated tablets.
Ibuprofen tablets are available in the 
following packs:
• blister packs of 8, 12, 16, 24, 32, 48, 56, 64, 
72, 84, or 96 tablets
• plastic bottles with a child proof cap, in 
pack sizes of 25 and 50 tablets.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Wockhardt UK Ltd, Ash Road North, 
Wrexham LL13 9UF, UK
Manufacturer
CP Pharmaceuticals Ltd, Ash Road North, 
Wrexham, LL13 9UF, UK
Other formats:
To listen to or request a copy of this leaflet 
in Braille, large print or audio please call, 
free of charge: 0800 198 5000 (UK only).
Please be ready to give the following 
information:

Product name 
Reference number
Maximum Strength
Ibuprofen 400mg 
29831/0117

Coated Tablets
This is a service provided by the Royal 
National Institute of Blind People.
This leaflet was last revised in 
November 2023
102483/13
228116