[Source page 1]
160 mm
160 mm
330 mm
Amoxicillin 250mg and 500mg Capsules
(Amoxicillin Trihydrate)
The name of this medicine is Amoxicillin Capsules. 
The active substance in Amoxicillin Capsule is called 
amoxicillin trihydrate, which belongs to a group of 
antibiotics called broad-spectrum penicillins.
Do not take Amoxicillin Capsules
• if you are allergic to amoxicillin, penicillin or any of the
other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6).
• if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any
antibiotic. This can include a skin rash or swelling of
the face or throat.
WHAT IS IN THIS LEAFLET
PATIENT INFORMATION LEAFLET: INFORMATION 
FOR THE USER
1. What Amoxicillin Capsule is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take Amoxicillin
Capsules
3. How to take Amoxicillin Capsules
4. Possible side effects
5. How to store Amoxicillin Capsules
6. Contents of the pack and other information
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking 
this medicine because it contains important information 
for you.
• Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
• If you have any further questions, ask your
doctor or pharmacist.
• This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not
pass it on to others. It may harm them, even if their
signs of illness are the same as yours.
• If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or
pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
1. WHAT AMOXICILLIN CAPSULE IS AND WHAT
IT IS USED FOR
2. WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW BEFORE YOU TAKE
AMOXICILLIN CAPSULES
XXXX
XXXX
Amoxicillin Capsule is used to treat infections caused by 
bacteria in different parts of the body. Amoxicillin may 
also be used in combination with other medicines to 
treat stomach ulcers.
Other medicines and Amoxicillin Capsules
Please tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, 
have recently taken or might take any other medicines.
• If you are taking allopurinol (used for gout) with
Amoxicillin, it may be more likely that you will have
an allergic skin reaction.
• If you are taking probenecid (used to treat gout),
concomitant use of probenecid may reduce the
excretion of amoxicillin and is not recommended.
• If you are taking medicines to help stop blood clots
(such as warfarin), you may need extra blood tests.
• If you are taking other antibiotics (such as tetracycline)
Amoxicillin may be less effective.
• If you are taking methotrexate (used for the treatment
of cancer and severe psoriasis) Amoxicillin may reduce
the excretion of methotrexate causing a potential
increase in side effects.
Tell your doctor or pharmacist that you are taking 
Amoxicillin. This is because Amoxicillin can affect the 
results of these tests. 
Warnings and Precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking 
Amoxicillin Capsules:
• have glandular fever (fever, sore throat, swollen glands
and extreme tiredness)
• if you suffer from kidney disease
• are not urinating regularly.
If any of the above apply to you, it is important that
you tell your doctor or pharmacist before taking
Amoxicillin Capsules and they will decide what to do.
Talk to your doctor before taking this product if any 
of the above apply to you.
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or 
pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are not sure.
• Swallow with water without opening capsule.
• Space the doses evenly during the day, at least 4
hours apart.
3. HOW TO TAKE AMOXICILLIN CAPSULES
pregnancy or while breast-feeding or if you are planning
to have a baby.
Kidney problems
If you have kidney problems the dose might be lower 
than the usual dose.
Adults, elderly patients and children weighing 
40 kg or more
The usual dose of Amoxicillin Capsule is 250 mg to 
500 mg three times a day or 750 mg to 1 g every 
12 hours, depending on the severity and type of infection.
• Severe infections: 750 mg to 1 g three times a day.
• Urinary tract infection: 3 g twice daily for one day.
• Lyme disease (an infection spread by parasites
called ticks): Isolated erythema migrans (early
stage – red or pink circular rash): 4 g a day, Systemic
manifestations (late stage – for more serious
symptoms or when the disease spreads around your
body): up to 6 g a day.
• Stomach ulcers: one 750 mg or one 1 g dose twice a
day for 7 days with other antibiotics and medicines to
treat stomach ulcers.
• To prevent heart infection during surgery: the dose
will vary according to the type of surgery.
Other medicines may also be given at the same time. 
Your doctor, pharmacist or nurse can give you more details.
• The maximum recommended dose is 6 g per day.
The usual dose is:
Use in children weighing less than 40 kg
All doses are worked out depending on the child's 
bodyweight in kilograms 
• Your doctor will advise you how much Amoxicillin
Capsules you should give to your child
• The usual dose is 40mg to 90mg for each kilogram
of body weight per day, given in two or three divided
doses.
• The maximum recommended dose is 100 mg for each
kilogram of body weight a day.
If you take more Amoxicillin than you should
If you have taken too much Amoxicillin signs might be an 
upset stomach (feeling sick, being sick or diarrhoea) or 
crystals in the urine, which may be seen as cloudy urine, 
or problems urinating. Talk to your doctor as soon as 
possible. Take the medicine to show the doctor.
If you forget to take Amoxicillin Capsules
• If you forget to take a dose, take it as soon as you
remember.
• Do not take the next dose too soon, wait about 4 hours
before taking the next dose.
• Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten
dose.
How long should you take Amoxicillin Capsule for?
• Keep taking Amoxicillin Capsule for as long as your
doctor has told you to, even if you feel better. You need
every dose to help fight the infection. If some bacteria
survive they can cause the infection to come back.
• Once you finish treatment, if you still feel unwell you
should go back to see the doctor.
Thrush (a yeast infection of moist areas of the body 
which can cause soreness, itching and white discharge) 
may develop if Amoxicillin Capsule is used for a long 
time. If this occurs tell your doctor. 
If you take Amoxicillin Capsule for a long time, your 
doctor may perform additional tests to check your 
kidneys, liver and blood are working normally.
Stop taking Amoxicillin Capsule and see a doctor 
straight away, if you notice any of the following 
serious side effects – you may need urgent medical 
treatment:
The following are very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 
people)
• allergic reactions, the signs may include: skin itching
or rash, swelling of the face, lips, tongue, body or
breathing difficulties. These can be serious and
occasionally deaths have occurred.
• rash or pinpoint flat red round spots under the skin
surface or bruising of the skin. This is due to
inflammation of blood vessel walls due to an allergic
reaction. It can be associated with joint pain (arthritis)
and kidney problems
• a delayed allergic reaction can occur usually 7 to 12
days after having Amoxicillin Capsule, some signs
include: rashes, fever, joint pains and enlargement of
the lymph nodes especially under the arms.
• a skin reaction known as 'erythema multiforme' where
you may develop: itchy reddish purple patches on the
skin especially on the palms of the hands or soles of
the feet, 'hive-like' raised swollen areas on the skin,
tender areas on the surfaces of the mouth, eyes and
genitals. You may have a fever and be very tired.
• other severe skin reactions can include: changes in
skin colour, bumps under the skin, blistering, pustules,
peeling, redness, pain, itching, scaling. These may be
associated with fever, headaches and body aches.
• flu-like symptoms with a rash, fever, swollen glands,
and abnormal blood test results (including increased
white blood cells (eosinophilia) and liver enzymes)
[Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic
Symptoms (DRESS)].
• fever, chills, a sore throat or other signs of an infection,
or if you bruise easily. These may be signs of a problem
with your blood cells.
• the Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction which occurs during
treatment with Amoxicillin Capsule for Lyme disease
and causes fever, chills, headache, muscle pain and
skin rash.
• inflammation of the large bowel (colon) with diarrhoea
(sometimes containing blood), pain and fever.
• serious liver side effects may occur. They are mainly
associated with people having treatment over a long
period, males and the elderly. You must tell your doctor
urgently if you get:
• severe diarrhoea with bleeding
• blisters, redness or bruising of the skin
• darker urine or paler stools
• yellowing of the skin or the whites of the eyes
(jaundice). See also anaemia below which might result
in jaundice.
If any of the above happens stop taking the medicine 
and see your doctor straight away.
Sometimes you may get less severe skin reactions 
such as:
• a mildly itchy rash (round, pink-red patches), 'hive-like'
swollen areas on forearms, legs, palms, hands or feet.
This is uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people).
These can happen when having the medicine or for up 
to several weeks after.
If you have any of these talk to your doctor as 
Amoxicillin Capsule will need to be stopped.
The other possible side effects are:
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
• skin rash
• feeling sick (nausea)
• diarrhoea
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
• being sick (vomiting)
Very rare (may affects up to 1 in 10,000 people)
• thrush (a yeast infection of the vagina, mouth or skin
folds), you can get treatment for thrush from your
doctor or pharmacist
• kidney problems
• fits (convulsions), seen in patients on high doses or
with kidney problems
• dizziness
• hyperactivity
Driving and using machines
Amoxicillin can have side effects and the symptoms 
(such as allergic reactions, dizziness and convulsions) 
may make you unfit to drive.
Do not drive or operate machinery unless you are feeling well.
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from 
available data) 
• Chest pain in the context of allergic reactions, which
may be a symptom of allergy triggered cardiac
infarction (Kounis syndrome).
• DIES has been reported mainly in children receiving
amoxicillin. It is a certain kind of allergic reaction with
the leading symptom of repetitive vomiting (1-4 hours
after drug intake). Further symptoms could comprise
abdominal pain, lethargy, diarrhoea, and low blood
pressure.
• Crystals in the urine leading to acute renal injury, which
may be seen as cloudy urine, or difficulty or discomfort
in passing urine. Make sure you drink plenty of fluids to
reduce the chance of these symptoms.
• Rash with blisters arranged in a circle with central
crusting or like a string of pearls (linear IgA disease)
• Inflammation of the protective membrane surrounding
the brain (aseptic meningitis).
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use Amoxicillin Capsules after the expiry date 
that is stated on the carton and blister foil. The expiry 
date refers to the last day of that month.
Blisters: This medicinal product does not require 
any special storage conditions.
HDPE Bottle: Store in the original container.
This medicinal products does not require any special 
temperature storage conditions.
Do not use Amoxicillin Capsules if you notice that the 
pack or any of the capsules are damaged. Medicines 
should not be disposed of via wastewater or household 
waste. Ask your pharmacist how to dispose of 
medicines no longer required. These measures will help 
to protect the environment.
What Amoxicillin Capsules contains
- The active substance in Amoxicillin Capsules is called
amoxicillin. The capsules contain either 250mg or
500mg of amoxicillin as amoxicillin trihydrate
- The other ingredients are sodium lauryl sulphate and
magnesium stearate
- The capsule shells are made of gelatin, SLS and contain
erythrosine (E127), indigotine (E132) and titanium
dioxide (E171) as colouring agents.
5. HOW TO STORE AMOXICILLIN CAPSULES
6. CONTENTS OF THE PACK AND OTHER
INFORMATION
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or 
pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects 
directly via the Yellow Card Scheme at:
www.mhra.gov.uk/yellowcard or by searching for MHRA 
Yellow Card in the Google Play or Apple App Store.
By reporting side effects you can help provide more 
information on the safety of this medicine.
Marketing Authorisation Holder:
Flamingo Pharma (UK) Ltd.
1st Floor, Kirkland House, 11-15 Peterborough Road,
Harrow, Middlesex, HA1 2AX, UK
What Amoxicillin Capsules looks like and the
contents of the pack
Amoxicillin Capsules 250mg are White/Maroon size ‘2’
capsules containing white to yellowish granular powder.
Amoxicillin Capsules 500mg are White/Maroon size ‘0’
capsules containing white to yellowish granular powder.
Amoxicillin Capsules 250mg and 500mg are available in
- HDPE bottles of 100 capsules in a carton along with a
leaflet inside.
- blister packs of 15 and 21 capsules in a carton along
with a leaflet inside.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
This leaflet was last revised in 03/2023.
If you would like this leaflet in different format
information or want to report any side effect please
contact marketing authorization holder listed above
Manufacturer:
Flamingo Pharma (UK) Limited,
The Bloc,
38 Springfield Way,
Anlaby, Hull,
HU10 6RJ, United Kingdom.
POM
PL 43461/0001
PL 43461/0002
MPLLAMOCOMMCPCOMFPLXXX011V07
Blood and Urine tests
If you are having:
• Urine tests (glucose) or blood tests for liver function
• Oestriol tests (used during pregnancy to check the
baby is developing normally)
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking 
Amoxicillin Capsules or any other medicine, during
4. POSSIBLE SIDE EFFECTS
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, 
although not everybody gets them.
If you have any further questions on the use of this 
medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
• the tongue may change to yellow, brown or black
and it may have a hairy appearance
• an excessive breakdown of red blood cells causing a
type of anaemia. Signs include: tiredness, headaches,
shortness of breath, dizziness, looking pale and
yellowing of the skin and the whites of the eyes
• low number of white blood cells
• low number of cells involved with blood clotting
• the blood may take longer to clot than it normally
would. You may notice this if you have a nosebleed or
330 mm
cut yourself.