[Source page 1]
V008 

Package Leaflet: Information for the patient 

Ferrous sulfate 200 mg film-coated tablets 

ferrous sulfate 

Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it 
contains important information for you. 
Always take this medicine exactly as described in this leaflet or as your doctor or 
pharmacist has told you. 
• Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
• Ask your pharmacist if you need more information or advice. 
• If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any 
possible side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• You must talk to a doctor if you do not feel better or if you feel worse 

What is in this leaflet: 
1. What Ferrous sulfate tablets are and what they are used for 
2. What you need to know before you take Ferrous sulfate tablets 
3. How to take Ferrous sulfate tablets 
4. Possible side effects 
5. How to store Ferrous sulfate tablets 
6. Contents of the pack and other information 

1. What Ferrous sulfate tablets are and what they are used for 

The name of your medicine is Ferrous sulfate 200 mg film-coated tablets. These tablets 
contain iron, a mineral essential in the production of red blood cells. 
Ferrous sulfate tablets are used to treat anaemia caused by lack of iron in the diet or loss 
of iron from the body. 

2. What you need to know before you take Ferrous sulfate tablets 

Do not take Ferrous sulfate tablets: 
• if you are allergic to ferrous sulfate or any of the other ingredients of this 
medicine (listed in section 6) 
• if you notice blood in your urine (Paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria) 
• if you suffer from iron storage disease, where the body contains more iron than it 
should (conditions such as haemosiderosis, haemochromatosis) 
• if you suffer from an active stomach ulcer (peptic ulcer)

[Source page 2]
V008 

• if you suffer from inflammation which causes abdominal pain or diarrhoea 
(ulcerative colitis) or any other inflammatory condition of the bowels (regional 
enteritis) 
• if you have had repeated blood transfusion 
• If you suffer from haemolytic anaemia (anaemia due to destruction of red blood 
cells) 
• if you are already being treated with iron supplements. 

Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Ferrous sulfate tablets: 
• if you have had a gastrectomy (operation to remove all or part of the stomach) 
• if you have a history of stomach ulcer 
• if you suffer from diabetes 
• if you have suffered from inflammatory bowel disease 
• if you suffer from diverticular disease (where pouches form in the bowel wall) 
• if you suffer from iron overload 
• if you suffer from intestinal strictures (abnormal narrowing of the bowel often 
caused by inflammation) 
• if you have co-existing deficiency of vitamin B12 or folic acid since combined 
deficiency produces microcytic blood film 
• if you have difficulties swallowing. 

Due to the risk of mouth ulceration and tooth discolouration, tablets should not be 
sucked, chewed or kept in the mouth but swallowed whole with water. If you cannot 
follow this instruction or have difficulty swallowing, please contact your doctor. 

If you accidentally choke on a tablet, please contact your doctor as soon as possible. This 
is because there is a risk of ulcers and narrowing of the bronchus occurring if the tablet 
enters the airways. This may result in persistent coughing, coughing up blood and/or 
feeling out of breath, even if the choking happened days to months before these 
symptoms occurred. Therefore you need to be urgently assessed to make sure that the 
tablet doesn’t damage your airways. 

Children and adolescents 
Ferrous sulfate tablets are not recommended for use in children and adolescents. 

Other medicines and Ferrous sulfate tablets 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any 
other medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription 

The following medicines can affect or be affected by treatment with Ferrous sulfate 
tablets:

[Source page 3]
V008 

• medicines used to treat indigestion (antacids and mineral supplements e.g. 
calcium, magnesium, bicarbonates, carbonates, oxalates and phosphates). It is 
important not to take this medicine for two hours before or after taking Ferrous 
sulfate tablets. 
• medicines used to treat bacterial infections (antibiotics e.g. tetracyclines, 
quinolones, and chloramphenicol). It is important not to take this medicine for 
two hours before or after taking Ferrous sulfate tablets. 
• zinc supplements 
• penicillamine used to treat rheumatoid disease 
• trientine used in Wilson's disease, a disorder where your body stores too much 
copper. It is important not to take this medicine for two hours before or after 
taking Ferrous sulfate tablets. 
• medicines used to treat bone problems e.g. bisphosphonates. It is important not to 
take this medicine for two hours before or after taking Ferrous sulfate tablets. 
• medicines used to treat Parkinsonism (e.g. co-careldopa, entacapone and 
levodopa) 
• levothyroxine used to treat under-active thyroid glands. It is important not to take 
this medicine for two hours before or after taking Ferrous sulfate tablets. 
• methyldopa used to treat high blood pressure 
• colestyramine used to treat high blood cholesterol and itching caused by liver 
disease 
• dimercaprol used to treat metal poisoning 
• mycophenolate mofetil used to suppress the immune system and stop organ 
rejection after transplant. 

Ferrous sulfate tablets with food and drink 
Do not take this medicine with tea, eggs or milk as they reduce its absorption in the 
stomach. 

Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have 
a baby, ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 

During the first 12 weeks of pregnancy only take this medicine if your doctor has 
specifically recommended it. For the remainder of the pregnancy Ferrous sulfate tablets 
can be taken to prevent iron deficiency. 

Ask your doctor or pharmacist before taking any medicine. 

Driving and using machines 
This medicine does not affect your ability to drive a car or operate machinery. 

Ferrous sulfate tablets contains sodium and aspartame

[Source page 4]
V008 

This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say it is 
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
This medicine contains 0.08 mg aspartame in each tablet. Aspartame is a source of 
phenylalanine. It may be harmful if you have phenylketonuria (PKU), a rare genetic 
disorder in which phenylalanine builds up because the body cannot remove it properly. 

3. How to take Ferrous sulfate tablets 

Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with 
your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure. 

Swallow the tablet whole with water. Do not suck, chew or keep the tablet in your mouth. 

Adults and Elderly: 
Prevention of Iron-deficiency Anaemia: One tablet daily. 
Treatment of Iron-deficiency Anaemia: One tablet two to three times daily 

• Take Ferrous sulfate tablets by mouth 
• Ferrous sulfate tablets should not be taken with tea, milk or eggs 

Treatment should not last more than three months after anaemia is controlled. 

If you take more Ferrous sulfate tablets than you should 
If you take more Ferrous sulfate tablets than you should, contact your doctor or go to the 
nearest hospital casualty department immediately. Take this leaflet with you so your 
doctor will know what you have taken. 

Symptoms of overdose include abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting and vomiting blood 
(haematemesis). 

If you forget to take Ferrous sulfate tablets 
If you forget a dose, take another as soon as you remember. If it is almost time for your 
next dose, then do not take the missed dose at all. Do not take a double dose to make up 
for a forgotten dose. 

If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or 
pharmacist. 

4. Possible side effects 

Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets 
them.

[Source page 5]
V008 

Serious side effects: 
As can happen with any medicine; a few people may develop an allergic reaction. If you 
experience any of the following, seek medical help immediately: 
• rash, itching, or difficulty breathing. 

Other side effects: 
Other side effects that have been reported are: 
• upset stomach 
• stomach pain 
• feeling or being sick 
• diarrhoea 
• constipation 
• darkening of stools 
• loss of appetite. 

Irritation and ulceration of the gullet can occur if the tablets become stuck, so take with 
water. 

If you take this medicine for longer than you should, you are at increased risk of tooth 
decay and infections. 

Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
Mouth ulceration (in case of incorrect use, when tablets are chewed, sucked or left in the 
mouth). All patients, but especially elderly patients and patients with difficulties 
swallowing may also be at risk of ulceration of the throat or the esophagus (the tube that 
connects your mouth with your stomach). If the tablet enters the airways, there may be a 
risk of ulceration of the bronchus (the major air passages of the lungs), resulting in 
bronchial narrowing. 

If you experience any side effects or feel that the medicine is affecting you badly, tell 
your doctor or pharmacist immediately. 

Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the 
Yellow Card Scheme at: www.mhra.gov.uk/yellowcard or search for MHRA Yellow 
Card in the Google Play or Apple App Store. By reporting side effects you can help 
provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 

5. How to store Ferrous sulfate tablets 

• Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
• Keep tightly closed, do not store above 25 °C.

[Source page 6]
V008 

• Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the outer 
packaging after ‘EXP’. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 

Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your 
pharmacist how to throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help 
protect the environment. 

6. Contents of the pack and other information 

What Ferrous sulfate 200 mg film-coated tablets contain: 
• The active ingredient is dried ferrous sulfate 200 mg (equivalent to 65 mg Ferrous 
Iron (Fe II)). 
• The other ingredients are microcrystalline cellulose (E460(i)), pregelatinised starch, 
crospovidone, colloidal anhydrous silica, magnesium stearate (E572), polyvinyl 
alcohol (E1203), talc (E553B), titanium dioxide (E171), glycerol monocaprylocaprate 
(E471), sodium lauryl sulfate (E487), macrogol (PEG) polyvinyl alcohol graftcopolymer (E1209), aspartame (E951). 

What Ferrous sulfate 200 mg film-coated tablets look like and content of the pack: 
• Ferrous sulfate 200 mg film-coated tablets are white round biconvex coated 
tablets, plain on both sides. 
• The tablets are available in packs of 14, 15, 21, 28, 42, 50, 56, 70, 84, 100, 250, 
500 or 1000 tablets and in blister strips of 14, 15, 21, 28, 42, 56, 70, 84 and 100 
tablets. Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 

Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Europe B.V. 
Polarisavenue 87 
2132JH Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 

Manufacturer 
Terapia S.A. 
124 Fabricii street 
400632 Cluj Napoca 
Romania 

This leaflet was last revised in June 2020. 

PL 31750/0113